# 191. [Number of 1 Bits](https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-1-bits/description/)

## Description
Write a function that takes an unsigned integer and return the number of '1' bits it has (also known as the [Hamming weight](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_weight)).

Example 1:
```
Input: 00000000000000000000000000001011
Output: 3
Explanation: The input binary string 00000000000000000000000000001011 has a total of three '1' bits.
```
Example 2:
```
Input: 00000000000000000000000010000000
Output: 1
Explanation: The input binary string 00000000000000000000000010000000 has a total of one '1' bit.
```
Example 3:
```
Input: 11111111111111111111111111111101
Output: 31
Explanation: The input binary string 11111111111111111111111111111101 has a total of thirty one '1' bits.
```

## Note:

* Note that in some languages such as Java, there is no unsigned integer type. In this case, the input will be given as signed integer type and should not affect your implementation, as the internal binary representation of the integer is the same whether it is signed or unsigned.
* In Java, the compiler represents the signed integers using 2's complement notation. Therefore, in Example 3 above the input represents the signed integer -3.


## Follow up:

* If this function is called many times, how would you optimize it?

******
## Solutions
### Bit Manipulation - O(1), O(1)
* Algorithm

The solution is straight-forward. We check each of the 32 bits of the number. If the bit is 1, we add one to the number of 1-bits.

We can check the ith bit of a number using a bit mask. We start with a mask `m=1`, because the binary representation of 1 is,

```
0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0001
```

Clearly, a logical AND between any number and the mask 1 gives us the least significant bit of this number. To check the next bit, we shift the mask to the left by one.

```
0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0010
```

And so on.

* Complexity Analysis

The run time depends on the number of bits in n. Because n in this piece of code is a 32-bit integer, the time complexity is `O(1)`.

The space complexity is `O(1)`, since no additional space is allocated.

### Binary String - O(1), O(1)
* Concept
Convert the integer to binary string and count 1 in it

### n & (n - 1) trick - O(1), O(1)
* Algorithm

We can make the previous algorithm simpler and a little faster. Instead of checking every bit of the number, we repeatedly flip the least-significant 1-bit of the number to 0, and add 1 to the sum. As soon as the number becomes 0, we know that it does not have any more 1-bits, and we return the sum.

The key idea here is to realize that for any number n, doing a bit-wise AND of n and n−1 flips the least-significant 1-bit in n to 0. Why? Consider the binary representations of n and n−1.

In the binary representation, the least significant 1-bit in n always corresponds to a 0-bit in n−1. Therefore, anding the two numbers n and n−1 always flips the least significant 1-bit in n to 0, and keeps all other bits the same.

Using this trick, the code becomes very simple.

* Complexity Analysis

The run time depends on the number of 1-bits in n. In the worst case, all bits in n are 1-bits. In case of a 32-bit integer, the run time is O(1).

The space complexity is O(1), since no additional space is allocated.
